hey guys Lindsey Simpson here it's that
time of the year again no not the
holiday season but tournament time the
first one up on DC United's calendar the
Lamar Hunt US Open Cup what is it why do
we play it why are there cups of Durer
well I'm back with more funny drawings
to explain it all first the basic facts
the US Open Cup tournament was founded
over 100 years ago by the American
amateur Football Association which is
now the United States Soccer Federation
or USSF it's the United States oldest
tournament and is used to determine the
best team from the United States with
teams from nine different leagues both
professional and amateur participating
in the event and now a history lesson
the first US Open Cup championship took
place in May of 1914 when gas was just
12 cents a gallon and Woodrow Wilson was
President of the United States and not
just a traffic filled bridge the
tournament consisted of 32 teams and
resulted in Brooklyn FC topping Brooklyn
Celtic to 2-1 for the cup so if we fast
forward over a hundred years later
here's how the tournament breaks down
there are nine single elimination rounds
for the 91 teams entered in the 2015
competition the preliminary and first
rounds of the tournament are comprised
of amateur teams and trust me you've
probably never heard of most of them
following those rounds the three
professional leagues enter and each of
their teams qualify to play
automatically USL or United Soccer
League is the third tier and us pro
soccer and enters in the second round in
ASL or North American Soccer League is
the second division and enters in the
third round what's the difference
between USL and NASL you might ask well
good question essentially it's just
bragging rights and some confusing
details in ASL predates MLS but was
relaunched in 2009 in its current
structure it has teams you've probably
heard of like the New York Cosmos or
Minnesota United FC which will become an
MLS expansion team in 2018 NASL teams
typically have a bit more money than USL
teams and can sign big players like Raul
from Spain the relationship between MLS
and NASL is somewhat similar to the
Premier League and championship league
across the pond but without relegation
and promotion now looking at USL it has
existed in its current format since 2011
and has 24 teams some you might
recognize like weird
my kickers and the New York Red Bulls -
its signed a deal with MLS to
incorporate the MLS reserve league into
its division and essentially acts as a
player development stage for MLS while
the two leagues are clearly designated
division two and three respectively both
are still competing for recognition as
the second best professional league in
the US and Canada for what it's worth
USL holds a seven and OH record against
NASL teams so far during 2015 Open Cup
play so game on
okay back to open cup MLS teams enter in
the fourth round and play whoever's left
in the competition so what exactly are
we playing for well the first-place team
gets two hundred fifty thousand dollars
and the Dewar cup no it's not full of
Scotch but it's named after the same
dude Sir Thomas Dewar the title also
comes with a berth in the CONCACAF
Champions League
the runner-up receives $60,000 and the
team from the lower rounds that makes it
the furthest in the tournament gets
15,000 bucks not too bad as for DC
United the team opens play against USL
Pittsburgh Riverhounds in the fourth
round the black and red have had an
impressive history and Open Cup play
taking home the title on three different
occasions and finishing runner-up two
other times the finals are in September
and DC is hoping to play for their
fourth Cup so make sure you check back
to follow united on their quest for
Durer the cup not the Scotch for DC
United I'm Lindsey Simpson